README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<br />
    <img src="./assets/ethereum.png" alt="Ethereum" width="80" >

<br />
  <h2 align="center">Noob-Ethereum</h2>
  <p align="center">
    JavaScript utilities to help you understand how Ethereum works
    <br />
    <!-- <a href="https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br /> -->
    <!-- <br /> -->
    <!-- <a href="https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template">View Demo</a> -->
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/markodayan/noob-ethereum/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/markodayan/noob-ethereum/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>

<br />

<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->

# About The Project

This repository was made to provide various utilities for interacting with Ethereum along with implementation of methods
highlighting crucial tasks conducted by in the permissionless environment inherent with blockchain networks.

The goal of this repository is to educate developers about how various aspects of Ethereum (and blockchain protocols in
general) and to provide modules to not re-invent the wheel when dealing with Ethereum.

# What Can I Do?

Currently, you can:

- Provide your own Infura/Alchemy API key and instantiate a provider to fetch a block by number (or the latest).
- Seed blocks into JSON files for later use.
- Verify merkle roots for block header or transaction tries.

## Provider Use

You can instantiate a provider (using the `'infura'` or `'alchemy'` 1st argument followed by your API key from whichever
service):

```typescript
import { Provider } from 'noob-ethereum';

const { provider } = new Provider('infura', process.env.INFURA_PROJECT_ID);

/* Fetch latest block */
const block = await provider.getLatestBlock();
/* Fetch block by number */
const query = await provider.getBlockByNumber(12_964_760);

/* Seed latest block to JSON file (include full transaction objects) */
provider.seedLatestBlock(true, '/src/<my_dest_directory>');

/* Seed block by number to JSON file (only include transaction hashes - preferable if you are not interested in transaction data) */
provider.seedLatestBlock(false, 12_964_760, '/src/<my_dest_directory>');
```

# Other Dependencies

There are various parts of this repo that leave implementation of lower-level data structures to
[ethereumjs](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo) who have done an excellent job, this includes:

- Modified trie data structures (if you want to see some trie implementations, I am working on them in this
  [repository](https://github.com/markodayan/algorithms-etc.git))
- RLP utilities

The [ethers](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js/) is also used for some minor utilities but we do not make use of
its provider classes which are implemented from scratch.

The [keccak](https://github.com/cryptocoinjs/keccak) package is used to access the specific SHA-3 hashing function used
in Ethereum.

<br />

<!-- CONTACT -->

# Contact

Mark Odayan - [@mark_mkzo](https://twitter.com/mark_mkzo)

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

update README.md for npm package

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<br />
    <img src="./assets/ethereum.png" alt="Ethereum" width="80" >

<br />
  <h2 align="center">Noob-Ethereum</h2>
  <p align="center">
    JavaScript utilities to help you understand how Ethereum works
    <br />
    <!-- <a href="https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br /> -->
    <!-- <br /> -->
    <!-- <a href="https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template">View Demo</a> -->
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/markodayan/noob-ethereum/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/markodayan/noob-ethereum/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>

<br />

<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->

# About The Project

This repository was made to provide various utilities for interacting with Ethereum along with implementation of methods
highlighting crucial tasks conducted by in the permissionless environment inherent with blockchain networks.

The goal of this repository is to educate developers about how various aspects of Ethereum (and blockchain protocols in
general) and to provide modules to not re-invent the wheel when dealing with Ethereum.

# What Can I Do?

Currently, you can:

- Provide your own Infura/Alchemy API key and instantiate a provider to fetch a block by number (or the latest).
- Seed blocks into JSON files for later use.
- Verify merkle roots for block header or transaction tries.

# Getting Started

Install the package with:

```bash
npm i noob-ethereum
```

## Provider Use

You can instantiate a provider (using the `'infura'` or `'alchemy'` 1st argument followed by your API key from whichever
service):

```typescript
import { Provider } from 'noob-ethereum';

const { provider } = new Provider('infura', process.env.INFURA_PROJECT_ID);

/* Fetch latest block */
const block = await provider.getLatestBlock();
/* Fetch block by number */
const query = await provider.getBlockByNumber(12_964_760);

/* Seed latest block to JSON file (include full transaction objects) */
provider.seedLatestBlock(true, '/src/<my_dest_directory>');

/* Seed block by number to JSON file (only include transaction hashes - preferable if you are not interested in transaction data) */
provider.seedLatestBlock(false, 12_964_760, '/src/<my_dest_directory>');
```

# Other Dependencies

There are various parts of this repo that leave implementation of lower-level data structures to
[ethereumjs](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo) who have done an excellent job, this includes:

- Modified trie data structures (if you want to see some trie implementations, I am working on them in this
  [repository](https://github.com/markodayan/algorithms-etc.git))
- RLP utilities

The [ethers](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js/) is also used for some minor utilities but we do not make use of
its provider classes which are implemented from scratch.

The [keccak](https://github.com/cryptocoinjs/keccak) package is used to access the specific SHA-3 hashing function used
in Ethereum.

<br />

<!-- CONTACT -->

# Contact

Mark Odayan - [@mark_mkzo](https://twitter.com/mark_mkzo)

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
